event_api.md, before:

# Chisel Event API

## Notes from ATHLETE Sync with Si-En (2/8/2024

- post-silicon world, trace buffer for event logs (fixed size, subsample events), don't want to perturb DRAM state because of this - perturb application that's running and perturbing the uarch events themselves
- in-memory format of an event trace (print messages - simulation) (binary format that can work in simulation and silicon)
- event-tracking API can be used for validation coverage too (erase time-axis/resolution)
- tag propgation is often not feasible for post-silicon usage due to area blowup
- only collect events that are valuable for future generation chip
- perf bugs are caught at block or subsystem level, not at SoC top-level - perf targets baked into block-level specs
- event graphs for post-silicon and SoC pre-silicon debug are at system-level

## Random Sketch (Bad Idea)

```scala
trait Event[T <: Data] {
    type Tag = (UInt, Event)
    def getNewTag(): Tag
    def recycleTag(tag: Tag): Unit
    def trigger(tag: Tag, metadata: T, parentEvents: Set[Tag]): Unit
}

abstract class SynthesizableEvent[T <: Data] extends Event[T <: Data] {
    val tag
    def getNewTag(): ???
}

case class FetchMetadata extends Bundle {
    val pc = UInt(64.W)
    val inst = UInt(32.W)
}

class FetchEvent extends Event[FetchMetadata]

case class Commit

case class Retire

case class L1Request
    instId: ???
    addr: UInt
    accessType: Read | Write

case class L1Response
    // no metadata is needed
    associatedInstruction
```

## Incremental Sketch

- Events need to have:
    - A global timestamp
    - Metadata that is specific to the event type
    - The ability to reference the tags of specific predecessor events
    - The ability to end an event chain by recycling the tags of completed events
- In increasing order of complexity:
    - Tagless single-trigger event with metadata
    - Two tagless single-trigger events that have to be distinguished (this distinguishing can be done by the metadata alone, I think)
    - Two tagged events where the second event consumes the tag produced by the first

### Single-Trigger Tagless Events

```scala
// manual implementation of the simplest type of event (tagless single-trigger event with metadata)
class Example extends Module {
    val io = new Bundle {
        val in = UInt(32.W) // just a random signal that's used as the metadata for the event
    }
    // Global cycle counter (ideally only created once per DUT, but we can allow creating one per event for now)
    val cycleCounter = RegInit(0.U(64.W))
    cycleCounter := cycleCounter + 1.U

    val (counter_val, counter_wrap) = Counter(true.B, 100)
    when (counter_wrap) {
        chisel3.printf(cf"Cycle: ${cycleCounter}, Event: CounterWrapEvent, Metadata: ${io.in}")
    }
}
```

```scala
// generalizing the above example
def event[T <: Data](trigger: Bool, name: String, metadata: T): Unit = {
    val cycleCounter = RegInit(0.U(64.W))
    cycleCounter := cycleCounter + 1.U
    when (trigger) {
        chisel3.printf(cf"Cycle: ${cycleCounter}, Event: ${name}, Metadata: ${metadata})")
    }
}

// consider 2 tagless single-trigger events that can be distinguished by event type and metadata
class Example extends Module {
    val io = new Bundle {
        val in1 = UInt(32.W)
        val in2 = UInt(16.W)
    }
    val (counter_val1, counter_wrap1) = Counter(true.B, 100)
    val (counter_val2, counter_wrap2) = Counter(true.B, 10)
    event(counter_wrap1, "CounterWrapEvent1", io.in1)
    event(counter_wrap2, "CounterWrapEvent2", io.in2)
}
```

### Events with Tags

```scala
class Cpu extends Module {
    // Trigger events from RTL
    val newInstFetched: Bool = ???
    val l1Access: Bool = ???
    case class FetchMetadata extends Bundle {
        val inst = UInt(32.W)
        val pc = UInt(64.W)
    }
    case class L1RequestMetadata extends Bundle {
        addr: UInt
        accessType: Read | Write
    }
    case class L1ResponseMetadata extends Bundle {
        data: UInt
    }

    val (fetchTag, fetchTagRecycleEn, fetchTagRecycle) = event(cond=newInstFetched, "Fetch", new FetchMetadata.Lit(_.inst -> ???, _.pc -> ???))
    val fetchInFlight = Reg
    event(cond=l1Access, "L1Access", new L1RequestMetadata(_.addr -> ???, _.accessType -> ???), parentTag =
}
```

Commit message:

update tidalsim tasks + event api note

event_api.md, after:

# Chisel Event API

## Notes from ATHLETE Sync with Si-En (2/8/2024

- purely software events (the event manager is SW, not HW!). synthesizable events are specially identified and then hand coded into the SoC
- post-silicon world, trace buffer for event logs (fixed size, subsample events), don't want to perturb DRAM state because of this - perturb application that's running and perturbing the uarch events themselves
- in-memory format of an event trace (print messages - simulation) (binary format that can work in simulation and silicon)
- event-tracking API can be used for validation coverage too (erase time-axis/resolution)
- tag propgation is often not feasible for post-silicon usage due to area blowup
- only collect events that are valuable for future generation chip (pipeline events are mostly useless, what events can tell us about the goodness of our implementation so we can tune it in the future?)
- perf bugs are caught at block or subsystem level, not at SoC top-level - perf targets baked into block-level specs
- event graphs for post-silicon and SoC pre-silicon debug are at system-level

## Random Sketch (Bad Idea)

```scala
trait Event[T <: Data] {
    type Tag = (UInt, Event)
    def getNewTag(): Tag
    def recycleTag(tag: Tag): Unit
    def trigger(tag: Tag, metadata: T, parentEvents: Set[Tag]): Unit
}

abstract class SynthesizableEvent[T <: Data] extends Event[T <: Data] {
    val tag
    def getNewTag(): ???
}

case class FetchMetadata extends Bundle {
    val pc = UInt(64.W)
    val inst = UInt(32.W)
}

class FetchEvent extends Event[FetchMetadata]

case class Commit

case class Retire

case class L1Request
    instId: ???
    addr: UInt
    accessType: Read | Write

case class L1Response
    // no metadata is needed
    associatedInstruction
```

## Incremental Sketch

- Events need to have:
    - A global timestamp
    - Metadata that is specific to the event type
    - The ability to reference the tags of specific predecessor events
    - The ability to end an event chain by recycling the tags of completed events
- In increasing order of complexity:
    - Tagless single-trigger event with metadata
    - Two tagless single-trigger events that have to be distinguished (this distinguishing can be done by the metadata alone, I think)
    - Two tagged events where the second event consumes the tag produced by the first

### Single-Trigger Tagless Events

```scala
// manual implementation of the simplest type of event (tagless single-trigger event with metadata)
class Example extends Module {
    val io = new Bundle {
        val in = UInt(32.W) // just a random signal that's used as the metadata for the event
    }
    // Global cycle counter (ideally only created once per DUT, but we can allow creating one per event for now)
    val cycleCounter = RegInit(0.U(64.W))
    cycleCounter := cycleCounter + 1.U

    val (counter_val, counter_wrap) = Counter(true.B, 100)
    when (counter_wrap) {
        chisel3.printf(cf"Cycle: ${cycleCounter}, Event: CounterWrapEvent, Metadata: ${io.in}")
    }
}
```

```scala
// generalizing the above example
def event[T <: Data](trigger: Bool, name: String, metadata: T): Unit = {
    val cycleCounter = RegInit(0.U(64.W))
    cycleCounter := cycleCounter + 1.U
    when (trigger) {
        chisel3.printf(cf"Cycle: ${cycleCounter}, Event: ${name}, Metadata: ${metadata})")
    }
}

// consider 2 tagless single-trigger events that can be distinguished by event type and metadata
class Example extends Module {
    val io = new Bundle {
        val in1 = UInt(32.W)
        val in2 = UInt(16.W)
    }
    val (counter_val1, counter_wrap1) = Counter(true.B, 100)
    val (counter_val2, counter_wrap2) = Counter(true.B, 10)
    event(counter_wrap1, "CounterWrapEvent1", io.in1)
    event(counter_wrap2, "CounterWrapEvent2", io.in2)
}
```

### Events with Tags

```scala
class Cpu extends Module {
    // Trigger events from RTL
    val newInstFetched: Bool = ???
    val l1Access: Bool = ???
    case class FetchMetadata extends Bundle {
        val inst = UInt(32.W)
        val pc = UInt(64.W)
    }
    case class L1RequestMetadata extends Bundle {
        addr: UInt
        accessType: Read | Write
    }
    case class L1ResponseMetadata extends Bundle {
        data: UInt
    }

    val (fetchTag, fetchTagRecycleEn, fetchTagRecycle) = event(cond=newInstFetched, "Fetch", new FetchMetadata.Lit(_.inst -> ???, _.pc -> ???))
    val fetchInFlight = Reg
    event(cond=l1Access, "L1Access", new L1RequestMetadata(_.addr -> ???, _.accessType -> ???), parentTag =
}
```
